Hey guys, welcome back to the course. So, last lecture,
I introduced you to the concept of wireframing,
why we do it, what it is, and how often
are you going to use it as a product manager,
and under what circumstances. Now that you're comfortable
with wireframes, we can actually introduce
more concepts now that are related to wireframes.
Wireframes are kind of the entry point,
iIf you're wanting to conceptualize your product idea or communicate it, it's the most ubiquitous way of communicating,
but wireframes can have more detail,
they can have more interaction,
and they can do all sorts of different things,
at which point we actually call them something else,
and that's the title of this lecture, which is "Wireframe,
mockup, and prototype." As a product manager,
you need to understand what makes them different,
what tools you'll use for each one, and, in general,
how do they relate to each other.
Let's first talk about wireframes, and I'm going to
explain this on a scale of fidelity.
Remember the concept of fidelity? Fidelity meaning accuracy.
Wireframes are at the far left and the first
thing we start with, because they're the simplest, they're
also called skeletons because they're very, very simple.
The way I like to think of wireframes is that they're
like the blueprint of your design. You're almost
always going to make these first,
and the reason why you do it is because you want to
tackle some basic questions around structure, layout,
and organization before your team iterates on visual details.
Wireframes are on the low fidelity side.
We are going to worry about technical and visual detail later.
There's a time and place for it, and it is not now. Visuals, and specifications, and technical details are very important,
but you want to make sure that you have the structure
and the layout hammered down first.
Some of the tools we'll use in wireframing might be
Balsamiq, and we're going to use Balsamiq in
this course. Balsamiq is incredibly popular for low fidelity wireframes, because it allows you to make them very quickly,
in a mock kind of sketch fashion that looks cool,
it's fun to play with, and people generally respond positively to it.
Another popular tool used for wireframing is Axure,
if I can remember how to draw the logo.
Sometimes it gets confused with the Windows Azure.
This is Axure with an X.
Axure is a big application, oftentimes you have it
at the enterprise level, because it allows teams to
collaborate and it has a lot of features baked into it.
It's by no means a lightweight solution.
Another one is Omni Graffle, that one is still used,
I'm not entirely sure why, it's kind of clunky, but
it has some interesting features. Just usually skip that one.
Hotgloo is another example of a popular wireframing tool.
I mention this one because this one is
actually browser based only, and you'll notice this
with a lot of tools for conceptualizing your product.
A lot of them are browser based.
Why?
Well, it makes it more convenient for you to store your
information with them and not on your hard drive,
where something can go wrong, and also, you can
then access that information anywhere you are.
It's also much easier to share that way,
share your wireframes with your teammates without
having to send them an e-mail attachment, which are
notorious for just sucking. And the last one I want to mention is POP, which we're actually going to use in this course.
It's really, really cool.
Check out that lecture.
POP allows you to take sketches that you've made and turn them into digital copies, and then you can manipulate them.
All right, now, what generally happens after we have wireframes?
Well, that's the concept of a mockup.
Now, mockups get confused all the time
with wireframes, with prototypes,
a lot of people don't even know what a mockup necessarily is.
Mockups are actually static displays of what
the final product should visually look like.
The reason why we use mockups is because it gives you
the opportunity to make decisions about things like
colors, typography, and, in general, style. To give you a visual representation, we'll draw the same version of the
wireframe, but now I'm going to add in color, and I'm going to
add in some people that we can just imagine
are photos, I'm going to be able to fill in the buttons and
what they look like, and we already know the structure,
now I'm just filling in kind of the pixel specific details.
Now, if you ever have trouble remembering what tools to use for mockups, well, remember who generally does a mockup.
Generally, the mockups are going to be done by the designers. Designers are the ones that are in charge
of visual detail, and so this portion of the process makes sense
for them to be the ones kind of at the
helm, and what do designers use? Typically,
they're going to use Photoshop.
Photoshop is incredibly powerful.
Kind of clunky when it comes to making mockups quickly,
but the vast majority of designers still use that.
Another option is Sketch, something that's been
gaining a lot of popularity, kind of as a competitor to
Photoshop, it allows you to draw things faster,
that's kind of their focus.
It's the Final Cut Pro to the Adobe Premiere, if you guys are in video and that means anything to you. Also, not
to be left out, a lot of designers will do their mockups in Illustrator.
That is a legitimate way of doing it, kind of clunky because Illustrator forces you to make your designs
in vector, which basically means that you're going to be
drawing your designs, and the designs are only
going to be held in space relative to the other points of the design.
I know that's kind of confusing,
what vector means, but think of it like this.
Photoshop is pixel based, Illustrator is vector. Photoshop,
when you draw something, you draw something, and when you stretch an image, it stretches out, and sometimes
it gets blurry, but with Illustrator, because it's vector,
there are no hard defined dots in the image.
It redefines the image as you stretch it, because
the image is only concerned with the relationship
between where this point is and where that point is.
That was totally extra, guys. I'll put some stuff in the
resources if you want to read more about that.
Another tool you can use, and back for round two, is Axure,
and another one called UXPin.
Now, I added these ones because they allow you
to wireframe, at least Axure does,
but Axure also has an image library and templates
that you can easily drag and drop into your wireframe
to convert them into mockups.
All right, and then, once you have the design hammered out,
what do you usually do then afterwards?
Well, now that you know the visual design looks like this,
the structure looks like this,
the layout is going to be exactly the way you have it on paper,
now you add interaction.
Now, if wireframes handle structure, and mockups handle visuals,
what do prototypes handle? They handle usability.
Prototyping is actually the first phase where
you can play with what you've created,
even if it's in a very limited regard.
Prototypes allow you to explore the
user interface that you've put together,
start looking for potential problems in the user flow, and get a decent idea of what you think is going to work best.
Now, for a product manager, prototypes are essential
if you want to do things like usability research.
It's one thing to show a potential customer or someone
you're doing a user test with a mockup or a
wireframe, but it's an entirely different thing if you
show them a prototype. A prototype can show you
what they think of it and how they interact with it, whereas
the other two, you really, you just only get their first impressions.
The best part of prototypes is it allows teams do usability research.
If you're an entrepreneur,
prototypes are pretty cool, because a lot of times that's
all you need to recruit people and raise money.
But keep in mind, guys. Prototypes, and when I say prototype,
in the web and mobile world, I mean something
that I can interact with, but that interaction
is going to be very limited.
It's basically going to be hot spots where I press something
and it takes me to a new page, or maybe,
maybe I can do some basic gestures,
if it's a mobile prototype. Now, a very popular tool
for making prototypes, believe it or not, is Keynote.
If you use Keynote, which is the Mac comparable to Powerpoint, and you can use templates and libraries
like Keynotopia, what you can do is you can make
a lot of images on the slides and then connect the
slides to other slides, so if I click a button on the
Keynote page, it links to another Keynote page, and
with Keynote, you can load that onto a mobile phone
or onto a web browser.
Pretty crafty, I might add.
But keep in mind that you're going to be very limited
by how much interaction you can add with Keynote.
.
Another one is POP. Now, look at POP, how it was
a wireframe tool and it's a prototyping tool. Well,
because it allows us to add interactions to our
wireframes, it skips the visual steps, so we're just
working with skeletons, literal wireframes, and moving
them around, and adding basic interactions. Other
ones to be aware of, again, our Axure. Axure is a massive product,
it handles all three of these stages,
no wonder it's decently popular. Proto.io is one
that's quite popular, it's worth mentioning because it
focuses solely on mobile apps.
If you're doing mobile apps, look into Proto.io.
And the last one is InVision, and InVision is another
massive product, very popular, that allows you to create
multiple layers of interactions into a page that
you can import mockups into. InVision gets my vote for
prototyping, because it's probably the best I've used.
Alright, you now know what's a wireframe,
what's a mockup, and what's a prototype.
You know that they're related to each other in that
wireframes are the least accurate, the lowest fidelity,
mockups are in the middle, and prototypes have the most fidelity,
because they have interaction and they
look exactly what the finished product is probably going to be.
Wireframes are structure, mockups are for
visuals, and prototypes are for usability and interaction.
Keep this in mind, because I just saved you a whole lot of
hurt for your first meeting, when you walk in,
and you call a wireframe a mockup, and someone just slaps you.
A mock up on someone just slaps you.
All right guys, in the next section, we're actually
going to get started with sketching.
So we're going to jump right into it.
I'm going to talk to you about what sketching is,
how does it relate to wireframes
(it is a wireframe), and how you can do it
now, easily, in five minutes.
All right, see you then.